welcome to accept it now oh man
welcome to GUI and in web browsers for
11th of December 2019 we are short stop
this week and we probably won't be this
time next for the next week's - - like
holidays and people taking time off but
we will be back in January I was not
sure if we will make this week's call
but there's one thing I wanted to show
and Hugo join us so I'm not alone
so I just wanted to briefly mention
recent changes in user interface
effectiveness companion it's related to
discussion in ipfs dog sweeper around
just like there's like a general
discussion about hosting web apps on
ideas and challenges related to related
related paths and then things like
origin separation it's bit longer and if
someone don't want to read everything
there is a short summary I believe here
with decisions we've made long story
short
on the companion side of things
hi Jim on the companion side of things
we started to experiment around
experience when someone is visiting the
NSF website so DNS link is this
convention of adding DNS txt records
with idea first path and our browser
extension is able to detect that there's
a ipfs path for the domain you are
trying to visit and we are able to log
page from ipfs instead of original HTTP
server which is appointed by the a
record so historically we've been always
redirecting to local gateway and in the
latest best
of idea of a companion we've made a
short experiment to change that behavior
so for that one village we better
release we stopped redirecting to local
gateway by default and instead we stayed
on the original DHCP server we've added
additional user interface for opening
website in a new tab from local gateway
there are some concerns around that
mostly about the fact that we stopped
kind of distributing content on the
initial load I proposed mitigation I
believe its link here so I propose to
mitigation that pre-loaded data of
visited websites in the background so if
the original HTTP server fails there
would be a copy on local on local server
so we had a design review call around
that and we sort of decided that we've
been doing what will this redirect local
gateway for a long time and subdomain
gateways are on the horizon which will
solve the security issue we wanted to
stop you and it does not make much sense
to a break the current user experience
in the intermediate in that time period
before today and like the beginning of
2021 we will and subdomain gateways so
that's long story short we flip the
switch back so we will continue
redirecting to local gateway however I
reworked the user interface a little bit
to make it easier to basically disable
all I give
integrations for a specific website so
if in the past we there was you there
was a user interface element I believe I
have it here let me find it no I don't
have it maybe I do I know anyway there
was a in this position there was a
toggle for enabling or disabling
redirect for a specific website and in
this PR I'm changing it to be more
generic so we not only start toggle
redirects we also stop all other
integrations because in the behind the
scenes we inject some content scripts
with some time change the Dom depending
on experiment user enabled there is a
window ipfs object injected two pages
to give our society of SAT eyes and this
one we want to provide one toggle which
disables all those integration and
that's basically it is under active tab
section so it's enabled by default on
every page but you can with one click
both disable redirects to local gateway
and shut down all ipfs integration so if
you find that activist companion is
breaking a website or you want to see
how website works without idea for
integration you should be able to take
advantage of this new agent interface
and if you like disable this redirect on
a website which is backed by DNS link in
this case it's dogs ipfs io you can see
it's enabled by default but when you
disable it it opens page from the
original HTTP server but gives you
additional option to open a copy on
local gay on local gateway in a new tab
and there is there are additional
options this entire DNS link section on
preferences screen to
to tweak the behavior so by default we
load website from captain gateway but
you can disable it we added this warning
so this we tell people about possible
risks and if you disable it you can
still trade out visited pages so I think
that's flexible enough for everyone and
the important part is that the default
state after initial install that the
clean install experience is the same as
it was before so we don't break the
default pathways which molly was mostly
worried during the call I think that's
it on my end regarding this change it's
not merge yet the I link the PR in the
notes so if you find that language or
the user interface could improve comment
on the issue I want to like merge it
this week release to beta channel and
then publish tool to stores it takes
time to publish the stores I did not
have it on my like agenda but I think
it's worth mentioning that it's getting
like hard maybe not harder button takes
more time to publish to Chrome Web Store
lessons yes let me find it because I
always try to be very transparent about
our interactions with both Mozilla and
Google around to the browser extensions
and like it's a constant battle recently
on Chrome Web Store from this time they
rejected our beta release for some
reason with like canned response
basically I I did not get like human
response
it's just make out of my death system
they've updated some rules and then our
extension got rejected but it's like
still available on
on the store it just like they rejected
the latest version of our battle maybe
because the screenshot is like pixelized
for a reason so people don't install
like the better version by mistake I
need to like do the proper description
screenshots maybe that will make them
happy
but it is
if someone wants to test bet our channel
on Chrome they need to like manually
install it from from sources or use the
3ds version attached to to release under
assets here all right that's me
if you have any questions related to any
topic side glad to discuss around so if
you have your topics feel free we are
like free pretty shots of this week so
all the new engine item oh go on
not this one
hmm what that would switch green and you
seen I'm seeing the agenda I'm thinking
I don't know so I finally managed to
release the new version of Steel which
actually was the first 1.0.0 ever in our
ripples so you can see the readme this
is actually a breaking change release
bunch of stuff which was changed
everything is more or less explained in
the release notes and also the readme
documentation has been updated so I'm
just gonna go through a couple of things
so CTL was a pretty old repo a bunch of
things kind of started to be bloated
inside some legacy gold and this was
giving us a bunch of problems and one
specifically was that we we couldn't
specify which version of JSI PFS package
or JFS finds the HTTP client was being
used when we spawn nodes from using the
FSC CTR so now we are able to do it we
have a hole here also other problems
with this one was pretty critical for us
because this package is used all over
the tests in probably all the repos in
the Jessica fests
org so some of the improvements are
these as you can see it's probably much
faster now the errors are
shredder we have debug debug logs
everywhere hmm we have a we have a way
to to the factory now can actually spawn
several nodes and manage several nodes
so you can in one go clean all of them
you can also specify some default some
options for each future spawn nodes and
also some overrides per type we have
three types the go demon Jas demon or a
Jas in process node so you can specify
overrides for each type which are all
merged everywhere properly and
everything should be much safer to deal
with we can also you need start and set
config in one go at least in JSF FS when
I say one go is basically using one only
one child process a while before we
needed to use like three or four and
actually the the utility function now
work in the browsers which they didn't
previously and we didn't know and also
working in web workers
the disposable node is much safer now he
actually cleans them itself in a browser
the coverage was also improved so for
the new things the top-level API
basically we we have one new method
which is create controller so we are CTL
is made of like two or three top-level
methods and internally we have a factory
and controllers controllers are
basically a wrapper around
ipfs node or daemon manufactory can
manage several controllers so we have a
create controller method which is spawns
the controller directly so we basically
is just a shortcut to instantiate a
factory and call spawn
we have a create factory method which
has a as you can see a secondary
parameter to overwrite options per type
so this changed how so basically we had
to create and use it to create factory
just to be more explicit and also the
options that we send to create factory
or previously create also change you can
see some of the differences here as you
can see here we can now specify exactly
which it should be which I profess to be
client we want to use and which JSF EFS
package we want to use we need to
specify a reference and a path because
of one specific reason CTL handles
remote nodes so if you want to start the
jst man from the browser obviously you
can't write you cannot spawn a process
inside a browser so you need to have a
little server that scale provides that
you can connect to and you tell that
servers for me jst man so this is called
a remote controller and Rev is basically
just a require of a specific package and
when dealing with remote controllers we
cannot send the reference to the remote
controller right so we need to send it
send a path but also when you we bundle
for the browser we need to have a as an
explicit required so the bundler
includes that package that we want to
use so we we need also need a reference
we need the reference to be equal to a
require specific require explicit
required so that's the reason that we
need to have
not just Rev or path we need to have
both so we can work in the browser
and we can also work in in like node
environments like Tron or whatever the
same goes to the other one and
everything else is straightforward
we also previously we had a spawn method
in the factory that accepted these
options which are kind of strange
because they mimic some of the ipfs
options and others down this it was
pretty strange so now what is sent to
the spawn you said it's basically the
control options all all the controller
options but you can specify ipfs options
which is which are exactly the same as
the ones that the ipfs constructor
accepts so there's no like different
option going around and users need to
understand one set of options and
another set of options it's all the
saints everything that JSF FS accepts
the factory spawn also accepts we did
also we now have a specific option to
set the FS the CTL to test mode and we
only apply some of the default
configuration that we always applied
previously we only apply it when we are
in test mode and also the default others
option was removed because it was just
like it was superfluous because we we
now only apply the some of the
configuration when we are in test mode
because we really need it for tests we
don't need to have the default others
options to are just confusing for the
user
and internally in the in the controller
we also removed a couple of methods
because they were needed and they were
like public except except accessible and
one of those change is the this the
others now actual actually take into
account to environment so now we that's
why I was able to enable a bunch a bunch
of browser chests in JFS and jsep client
that were skipped with this new version
I was able to enable all almost all the
tests in the browser and they were
skipped from one simple reason we
couldn't connect when we when a test
needed needs to connect several nodes to
do some stuff in browser all of those
tests were not enabled because TL didn't
didn't set the proper addresses and now
it does so everything is wired up so
remote nodes open web sockets enable
WebSocket server so the browser's can
connect to remote nodes and everything
is properly wire and the connectivity in
can happen the only situation where we
can't we cannot do connect that's by
design is when we have or by it's by
designer limitation we can call
imitation of arousal when we have to in
process browser nodes they cannot
connect to each other because we have no
way inside the browser to connect two
nodes everything else it works and this
made all the tests much easier to end of
the hoax the before hopes the the after
hooks all the spawning it's much easier
to do all the overriding for specific
situations in all of our repos we have
different configurations in specific
tests and we can now have said we are we
now have specific places that we can
override it and everything tn is merged
correctly and we are sure what
configuration the node is running so now
this is mergency released and the
supporting PRS are being released right
now so yeah that's about it it's awesome
so now we can like go over those repos
and enable all those scripts test in the
web browser context yeah it's not at
least typical engine just a profess it's
it's done we also learnt what that that
did was that - he started uncovering
stuff that we mean know was failing
because previously we were always
running inside interface the interface
core tests we were always using nodes of
the controller's of the same type and
that's why the browser tests the tests
were skipped in the browser because in
the browser when we set like type in
process they couldn't connect by design
so we just someone just skipping the
tests so now what I did I started kind
of specifying a primary secondary
situation where at least one is in
process and the others need to be either
j-s or go so what I uncovered was like
we have pretty a pretty serious
situation where like interrupting
between all of these all of these three
types in some combinations just work so
there's already issues about it and we
will work on it and it will fix
everything
hopefully as soon as possible
your Moodle I was just sending
compliments in your direction thank you
now I was saying that it is very
important that we start to try mean like
those different context cause a lot of
stuff when I was working on like brave a
lot of stuff that was passing interest
did not work in browser context so it
will be easier now to catch those those
cases yeah almost everything is enabled
for fun it's just a matter of action
actually we don't have one situation
that I think well we already identified
the source of the error we're in pubs
are subscribing doesn't work in Firefox
specifically is Firefox and that's the
we have for tests all around subscribing
that file in Firefox
everything else is enabled all the
interface core tests are enabled in HTTP
client in jessup EFS all of them I'll
enable HTTP client still has some that
I'm not which but less than than
previously but JSF infests all of them
are enabled besides this specific one
that we needed to skip even though
Chrome passes the Firefox still has the
issue but I think we already identified
the source so it should be pretty easy
to fix super awesome super awesome thank
you so much
cool I don't think we have anything else
on the agenda Jim is there anything you
want to chat about I'm still getting
started doing a collect could be stuff
just starting point test ground all
right
alright I think given the show we are
short-staffed we can take half our back
thank you so much for for joining us
this week let me let me maybe share my
screen we are at the end of agenda all
right
so besides thanks so much for dialing
this week I pretty sure for the next two
weeks we won't have this call like
double check ipfs community calendar but
I think those are already removed the
next one will be in January
hopefully with with more more people
after everyone will be refreshed so see
that SIA